The senior concert band is a group of students who are more advanced,
they’ve played for at least one term in the beginning band
or have played for a couple years
The senior concert band is a club, it’s something that they do for fun,
they get together for a stress release
and the piece that we played was for the “Evening of Music”
which is the concert we put on.
The piece is called “Stone Mountain Fantasy”.
It’s supposed to be like a Lord of the Rings-type journey is how I imagined it
you’ve got the idea of epic vistas and a battle
and then a love story in the middle sort of thing
and then back to the battle and they win!
That’s sort of what the piece is about.
I think from this experience they got to learn more about
what it means to be a professional musician
and what it means to be a professional.
And to be in an environment where they have to do something more than once.
They got to see someone from an artistic side
take shots and put something together.
We talked about what it meant to be a professional touring musician, for example.
They got to get a glimpse behind the scenes
of what it really is to be a musician in his day and age
which is something we don’t often talk about while working on our pieces.
So, I think that was a really important thing for them to be exposed to
as it allowed them to get a glimpse, if they choose to be musicians as a career,
what that could look like for them in the future.